i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/development-guide/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Development Guide Overview

Guides that are done:

- [How to add new TTS support?](./backend/tts.mdx)
- How to modify documentation? Please refer to the [Documentation Site README](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/open-llm-vtuber.github.io)

## Project Architecture Overview

Our project exists as an organization on GitHub, primarily to organize related repositories. We are not currently a formal organizational entity, and we warmly welcome new contributors to join us.

### Core Repositories

| Repository | Description | Main Maintainers |
|------|------|------------|
| [Open-LLM-VTuber](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber) | Project backend, main repository | [t41372](https://github.com/t41372), [ylxmf2005](https://github.com/ylxmf2005) |
| [Open-LLM-VTuber-Web](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Web) | Project frontend, including web interface and Electron application | [ylxmf2005](https://github.com/ylxmf2005) |
| [Open-LLM-VTuber-Unity](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Unity) | Unity frontend, in development | [AnyaCoder](https://github.com/AnyaCoder), [Harry-Yu-Shuhang](https://github.com/Harry-Yu-Shuhang) |
| [open-llm-vtuber.github.io](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/open-llm-vtuber.github.io) | Documentation site source code, based on docusaurus | - |

This project uses a frontend-backend separation architecture. The backend [Open-LLM-VTuber](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber) provides API services, so as long as you adapt to the backend API (mainly `/client-ws`), you can also develop your own frontend application.

### Version Management and Development Plan

#### Version Numbering Convention
Project version numbers follow **Semantic Versioning**:
- Major version (e.g., v0.5.2 → v1.0.0): Significant changes that users cannot directly upgrade
- Minor version (e.g., v1.0.0 → v1.1.0): New feature releases
- Patch version (e.g., v1.0.0 → v1.0.1): Bug fixes

#### Branch Information
| Branch | Description | Target Audience |
|------|------|----------|
| `dev` | Latest development progress | Developers only (may be unstable) |
| `main` | Preview version | Early adopters |
| `v1-stable` | Stable version | All regular users |

- Version number must be updated when merging to the `main` branch
- The `v1-stable` branch is used for releases, and user update scripts will synchronize with the latest changes in this branch
- Other branches are mostly feature branches or historical legacy

#### Version Release Process
1. New features are developed in the `dev` branch
2. After features stabilize, they are merged into the `main` branch with an increased version number (e.g., `v1.0.0-alpha.1` → `v1.0.0-alpha.2`)
3. After accumulating enough features, stable versions are released to `v1-stable`, with release notes, and published.

Version numbers are recorded in `pyproject.toml` and displayed in the command line when starting the backend. Note that this is different from the `conf_version` in the configuration file, which is only used to record configuration file structure changes.

#### Development Planning
The project has a [Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/Open-LLM-VTuber/projects/2), but after the `v1.0.0` update, we haven't strictly followed it. Currently, we mainly rely on GitHub Issues and the [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues/127) to track development tasks.

## How to Participate in Development

### Before You Start

Before implementing your ideas, we recommend:

1. Check if there is a related [Issue](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues)
2. If not, create a new issue to discuss your idea
3. Start action after receiving feedback

Of course, if you want to develop directly and submit a PR, I won't stop you... 👀

### Finding Tasks

If you want to participate but don't have specific ideas:

- Check the [Feature Requests & Bugs & Top issues Tracker](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues/127)
- Look for tasks labeled with `good first issue` - these are easier and suitable for new contributors
- Look for tasks labeled with `help wanted` - these are areas where we especially need help

### Development Process

1. Fork the relevant repository
2. Switch to the `dev` branch for development (the project changes rapidly)
3. Implement features or fix issues
4. Submit a PR to the `dev` branch of the original repository

If you encounter problems, you can always:
- Ask questions in the relevant issue
- Submit a PR draft to seek help
- Discuss in GitHub discussions
- Contact us through the following ways:
  - QQ group, QQ channel, Discord group
  - Bilibili private messages or other methods

## Code Standards and Notes

### Code Style

- Backend uses `ruff` as the linter. Please run `uv run ruff format` to format your code before submission
- Error messages and comments **should be in English** (although our users are primarily Chinese speakers, we still have users and developers who speak other languages)

### Configuration Files

- Configuration file templates are located in the `config_templates` directory
  - `conf.default.yaml` (English)
  - `conf.ZH.default.yaml` (Chinese)
- When modifying the configuration structure, both template files must be updated simultaneously
- Configuration files are validated using Pydantic. Please add corresponding data classes in `src/open_llm_vtuber/config_manager`

### Frontend Development

- Frontend code is in a separate [Open-LLM-VTuber-Web](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Web) repository
- After building via GitHub Action, it links to the frontend directory of the main repository as a Git Submodule

#### Frontend-Backend Collaborative Development
If you need to modify both frontend and backend code:

1. Please refer to [Frontend User Guide/Installation and Deployment](/docs/user-guide/frontend/install) to get the frontend source code
2. Before frontend changes are merged to the frontend `main` branch, the backend's `frontend` submodule will not update
3. The development process is:
   - Frontend changes are first merged to the frontend `dev` → `main` branch
   - Wait for the frontend GitHub Action build to complete (generating the `build` branch)
   - Update the backend's `frontend` submodule reference
   - Merge backend changes to the corresponding branch

### Documentation Updates

**Remember to update the relevant documentation after implementing features**. This is very important for new users and developers!

## Join the Community

If you're in our QQ group, you can get the `Contributor` title after making contributions. Remember to tell me your GitHub ID so I can recognize you~

In fact, most of our project's main contributors are in the QQ group. Welcome to join and communicate together!

Commit message:

Update dev guide: deprecate dev branch, update process
Updated both Chinese and English development guide overviews to announce the deprecation of the 'dev' branch, clarify that all new development should be based on 'main', and revise related instructions and branch/release process. Added a v2.0 development notice and updated frontend-backend workflow documentation.

i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/development-guide/overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---
# Development Guide Overview

> **📢 v2.0 Development**: We are focusing on Open-LLM-VTuber v2.0 — a complete rewrite of the codebase. v2.0 is currently in its early discussion and planning phase. We kindly ask you to refrain from opening new issues or pull requests for feature requests on v1. To participate in the v2 discussions or contribute, join our developer community on [Zulip](https://olv.zulipchat.com). Weekly meeting schedules will be announced on Zulip. We will continue fixing bugs for v1 and work through existing pull requests.


Guides that are done:

- [How to add new TTS support?](./backend/tts.mdx)
- How to modify documentation? Please refer to the [Documentation Site README](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/open-llm-vtuber.github.io)

## Project Architecture Overview

Our project exists as an organization on GitHub, primarily to organize related repositories. We are not currently a formal organizational entity, and we warmly welcome new contributors to join us.

### Core Repositories

| Repository | Description | Main Maintainers |
|------|------|------------|
| [Open-LLM-VTuber](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber) | Project backend, main repository | [t41372](https://github.com/t41372), [ylxmf2005](https://github.com/ylxmf2005) |
| [Open-LLM-VTuber-Web](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Web) | Project frontend, including web interface and Electron application | [ylxmf2005](https://github.com/ylxmf2005) |
| [Open-LLM-VTuber-Unity](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Unity) | Unity frontend, in development | [AnyaCoder](https://github.com/AnyaCoder), [Harry-Yu-Shuhang](https://github.com/Harry-Yu-Shuhang) |
| [open-llm-vtuber.github.io](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/open-llm-vtuber.github.io) | Documentation site source code, based on docusaurus | - |

This project uses a frontend-backend separation architecture. The backend [Open-LLM-VTuber](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber) provides API services, so as long as you adapt to the backend API (mainly `/client-ws`), you can also develop your own frontend application.

### Version Management and Development Plan

#### Version Numbering Convention
Project version numbers follow **Semantic Versioning**:
- Major version (e.g., v0.5.2 → v1.0.0): Significant changes that users cannot directly upgrade
- Minor version (e.g., v1.0.0 → v1.1.0): New feature releases
- Patch version (e.g., v1.0.0 → v1.0.1): Bug fixes

#### Branch Information
| Branch | Description | Target Audience |
|------|------|----------|
| `main` | Preview version | Early adopters |
| `v1-stable` | Stable version | All regular users |

**The `dev` branch has been deprecated**

- Version number must be updated when merging to the `main` branch
- The `v1-stable` branch is used for releases, and user update scripts will synchronize with the latest changes in this branch
- Other branches are mostly feature branches or historical legacy

#### Version Release Process
1. New features are developed based on the `main` branch
~~2. After features stabilize, they are merged into the `main` branch with an increased version number (e.g., `v1.0.0-alpha.1` → `v1.0.0-alpha.2`)~~
3. After accumulating enough features, stable versions are released to `v1-stable`, with release notes, and published.

Version numbers are recorded in `pyproject.toml` and displayed in the command line when starting the backend. Note that this is different from the `conf_version` in the configuration file, which is only used to record configuration file structure changes.

#### Development Planning
The project has a [Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/Open-LLM-VTuber/projects/2), but after the `v1.0.0` update, we haven't strictly followed it. Currently, we mainly rely on GitHub Issues and the [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues/127) to track development tasks.

## How to Participate in Development

### Before You Start

Before implementing your ideas, we recommend:

1. Check if there is a related [Issue](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues)
2. If not, create a new issue to discuss your idea
3. Start action after receiving feedback

Of course, if you want to develop directly and submit a PR, I won't stop you... 👀

### Finding Tasks

If you want to participate but don't have specific ideas:

- Check the [Feature Requests & Bugs & Top issues Tracker](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber/issues/127)
- Look for tasks labeled with `good first issue` - these are easier and suitable for new contributors
- Look for tasks labeled with `help wanted` - these are areas where we especially need help

### Development Process

1. Fork the relevant repository
~~2. Switch to the `dev` branch for development (the project changes rapidly)~~ **Please develop directly based on the `main` branch. The dev branch has been deprecated**
3. Implement features or fix issues
4. Submit a PR to the `main` branch of the original repository

If you encounter problems, you can always:
- Ask questions in the relevant issue
- Submit a PR draft to seek help
- Discuss in GitHub discussions
- Contact us through the following ways:
  - QQ group, QQ channel, Discord group
  - Bilibili private messages or other methods

## Code Standards and Notes

### Code Style

- Backend uses `ruff` as the linter. Please run `uv run ruff format` to format your code before submission
- Error messages and comments **should be in English** (although our users are primarily Chinese speakers, we still have users and developers who speak other languages)

### Configuration Files

- Configuration file templates are located in the `config_templates` directory
  - `conf.default.yaml` (English)
  - `conf.ZH.default.yaml` (Chinese)
- When modifying the configuration structure, both template files must be updated simultaneously
- Configuration files are validated using Pydantic. Please add corresponding data classes in `src/open_llm_vtuber/config_manager`

### Frontend Development

- Frontend code is in a separate [Open-LLM-VTuber-Web](https://github.com/Open-LLM-VTuber/Open-LLM-VTuber-Web) repository
- After building via GitHub Action, it links to the frontend directory of the main repository as a Git Submodule

#### Frontend-Backend Collaborative Development
If you need to modify both frontend and backend code:

1. Please refer to [Frontend User Guide/Installation and Deployment](/docs/user-guide/frontend/install) to get the frontend source code
2. Before frontend changes are merged to the frontend `main` branch, the backend's `frontend` submodule will not update
3. The development process is:
   - Frontend changes are first merged to the frontend `main` branch
   - After the changes are reviewed and merged, the GitHub Action will automatically build and generate the `build` branch
   - The backend needs to update the `frontend` submodule reference
   - Merge backend changes to the corresponding branch

### Documentation Updates

**Remember to update the relevant documentation after implementing features**. This is very important for new users and developers!

## Join the Community

If you're in our QQ group, you can get the `Contributor` title after making contributions. Remember to tell me your GitHub ID so I can recognize you~

In fact, most of our project's main contributors are in the QQ group. Welcome to join and communicate together!
